- [Narrator] So that is all that we have to see
under the JSON binding API
we saw the default settings
a whole lot of settings there,
then we saw a lot of custom options,
both ways, the compile time
and the runtime customizations.
And then we also saw how to have your own
serialization by means of adapters
and serializers.
The last bit of this course is where
we are going to see how do you get the
JSON binding API and put it inside
a JAX-RS which is Java API for
restful web service application.
So we are going to build a very small
JAX-RS application quickly
and make sure that we use JSON binding
in order to send and receive
Java JSON object and vice versa.
Okay.
So let's set up that application first.
It's very simple to do that.
And it means that we have create a Maven project
from the Java EE 8 archetype.
So let's go and do that.
You say right click,
new project,
say Maven and choose this option
project from archetype
and what are we gonna choose it's
a restful web application that we want so,
Java EE 8 essential archetype should be good.
Say next,
give it a name so let's say
JSONbWeb.
Let's get rid of the default package
we don't want this package.
We'll create our own later
when the structure of the project gets generated.
Okay say finish
and let's get the project structure generated first.
Okay so I'm going to minimize the earlier one
and that's the one that we want, okay.
Now under source packages there are some
default packages that get generated out of
that archetype.
We don't want them.
What we'll do is we'll create our
own packages so
com.app.rest
so this is the folder
that is going to contain all the rest classes.
Then another source package
for
all the beans that we use.
And then we'll also create one package
for the utis.
Okay.
Let's understand this quickly.
This is a JAX-RS application, right?
So you will have a basic class which
is the basic configuration class for JAX-RS
which extends the application class.
Let me tell you that it has already been generated
here under the com.airhacks package.
Okay if I just open this
that's what it looks like.
It extends the application class.
It is annotated with the applicationpath annotation
and that is what specifies the basic URI
for this application.
So if you want to access any other restful bean
in this application,
you'll have to first come to this part
and then access the part of the
respective restful class.
Okay.
So we'll just get this, copy this
and put it in a rest package.
Paste it there
along with the refractor option.
Once we do this,
now we can completely get rid
of these packages that were created by default.
Okay so I'm going to delete them
and I'm gonna remove all references.
Okay we are good.
So we've created the rest package,
we've created the bean package,
and we've created the utis package.
Now, the magical thing is that
under the poem xml,
which is the Maven configuration file
for this project,
do you see a dependency for Java EE API?
Yes.
So now that it is already there,
we do not need to really add the JSON
bind API dependency separately.
The entire dependency has already been added
to our project so it's right out there
available with us.
Okay.
So that was the first step create a
Maven project from the archetype.
Next is add GlassFish Server 5
to the IDE.
Now we are gonna download GlassFish Server 5
as a part of the setup
and let's say you don't know
how to add a server.
I'll show you that.
Let's go to tools,
servers,
and here you have an option to add server.
So when you click on add server,
you can choose the option of GlassFish server.
Say next.
You can also give it a name by the way,
down there.
Say next
and then you need to feed the path
of the GlassFish instillation data tree.
When you download, it comes as a zip package.
You just need to go to the home part
of GlassFish server and then feed that path
to this instillation location.
So let me show you the
GlassFish instillation path.
Let's go to the
explorer
under my D drive softwares,
I have GlassFish already unzipped
when I downloaded.
So I can go there
and that becomes the path of my GlassFish server.
Okay, you just have to take this
and paste it right there
in your IDE
and then you're done.
It creates a local domain for you
and when you say next it will install
that server for you.
Now, for me, in this netsbean IDE setup
I already have that available with me
so I'm not going to go ahead with this operation.
I'm just going to cancel this but,
these are the definite steps
to get the GlassFish server added to netbeans.
Okay, we need this server
because we need to deploy this restful application
on the server.
Alright.
So,
that is done too.
We have created the package for beans
and rest classes.
Yes we have done that.
The rest of the stuff we will see in the next video.